Owning A Pet
  Health Benefits of Owning a Pet

    The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the National Institute of Health (NIH) have both conducted heart-related studies on people who have pets. The findings showed that pet owners exhibit decreased blood pressure, cholesterol and triglyceride levels -- all of which can ultimately minimize their risk for having a heart attack down the road. For those who have already experienced a heart attack, research also indicates that patients with a dog or a cat tend to have better recovery rates. These benefits are thought to be connected with pets' tendency to help reduce or at least control their owners' overall stress levels.

    According to studies like those conducted by the Wellness Institute at Northwest Memorial Hospital, as long as you're the one holding the leash, you'll reap the rewards, which can include losing -- or at least maintaining -- weight. Research conducted by the National Institute of Health also supports this claim -- including one study of more than 2,000 adults, which found that dog owners responsible for walking their pups are less likely to be obese than dog owners who pass the duty off to someone else or those who don't own dogs at all.

    Pets are a great way to beat the blues. Not only are they known to they offer unconditional love, but they may also give their owners a sense of purpose, which can be crucial for those feeling down in the dumps. Pets also combat feelings of loneliness by providing companionship, which can boost your overall mood and even bring you feelings of joy and happiness.

    From: Top 5 Health Benefits of Owning a Pet http://www.animalplanet.com/pets/benefits-of-pets/
  ----
  Owning a Dog
  Why do you want a dog?

    It's a simple question, but one many people fail to ask themselves before they get a dog. Getting a dog just because it's "the thing to do," or because your children have been begging for a puppy can end up being a big mistake. Remember that you will be responsible for caring for your new family member for up to 15 years.

    Is there enough time in your life for a dog?

    Dogs are pack animals and you are part of their new pack. They are companion animals and cannot be ignored just because you're busy or too tired to deal with them. They require a lot of care, which includes feeding, exercising, and socializing – dogs need companionship every day. Many wonderful dogs end up in shelters because their owners didn't have the time to train and care for them.

    Can you afford a dog?

    The costs of caring for a dog throughout her life can be expensive. Healthcare, training classes, grooming, food, toys, treats, boarding, and other expenses add up fast.

    From: Thinking about getting a dog? http://dogtime.com/trending/766-consider-before-getting-dog-hsus
  ----
  Owning a Cat
    The most common reason to keep a pet is for companionship, so this benefit won't come as a surprise to anyone. People who don't have a cat in their lives often believe that cats are unsocial, distant pets. If you've ever been the recipient of an affectionate head-bunt from a friendly kitty, you know that the "unsocial" myth is indeed a myth. Cats are not the solitary animals that they had been believed to be.

    Cats might not need much exercise, compared to dogs and rabbits, but they do like to play with their human companions. Tossing a toy mouse around the living room can get you moving a bit, too.

    People sometimes accuse their friends of turning their pet into a substitute child. By replacing a child or younger sibling as "something to nurture", a pet often does serve that need. In today's smaller families, that isn't necessarily a bad thing. Everybody needs somebody to love, furry or otherwise.

    From: Benefits of Cat Ownership https://www.lovethatpet.com/cats/getting-started/benefits-of-owning-a-cat/